adding a skills section (#301)
jupyterhub/team-compass: docs/team/skills.md

# Skills and ways to contribute

There are many ways that you can contribute to the JupyterHub / Binder projects.
This page attempts to provide some pathways for community members to learn and
apply their skills to the team.

## Where to start?

> The short answer to this question is: there's no easy answer :-)  there are many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The short answer to this question is: it depends :-)  there are many
```
what do you think about highlighting already at the start that it depends on what you want to do, your skills, etc aka "it depends". Suggestion is motivated by trying to avoid greeting people with 'it is not easy'. Even though this isn't what the original sentence said, if you read it :)

# Skills and ways to contribute

There are many ways that you can contribute to the JupyterHub / Binder projects.

> This page attempts to provide some pathways for community members to learn and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page suggests some pathways for community members to learn new skills and
```

> apply their skills to the team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
share their skills with the team.
```

## Where to start?

> The short answer to this question is: it depends :-)  there are many

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The short answer to this question is: follow your interests :-)  There are many
```

different ways to contribute to the JupyterHub community - technical, mentorship,
communications, community work, and documentation are just a few. You can either
apply your skills to help out, or use it as an opportunity to learn something new!

## A few general ways to help out

* Look through the issues in a repository, and help respond to issues that haven't been addressed already

> * Guide conversation in issues so that they get closer to having a clear, actionable path forward

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Guide an issue's conversation to help form a clear, actionable next step to move the issue forward
```

* For general questions about using JupyterHub, assist the person and then improve the documentation

>   so that the answer is easier to find.

Reviewer 3: Should we say something about guiding people to Discourse for help?

Reviewer 2: Great suggestion @manics. Add a link here to the Discourse.

* For issues labeled "bug" try to clarify what is going on, and reproduce the bug on your machine
* For issues with reproducible bugs, in a PR write a test that will fail because of the bug.
* For issues with reproducible bugs, in a PR fix the bug and make sure that the test passes.
* For issues that describe new features, engage in conversation in the issue to define an actionable
  path forward.
* For issues that describe new features and with a clear path forward, open a PR that implements
  some or all of the feature.

## Things to know about JupyterHub

> This section provides a combination of "skills that are helpful to learn in order

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides a combination of "helpful skills to learn as a contributor"
```

Reviewer 2: The original wording would deter some folks with imposter syndrome as they may not think their skills are strong enough or that they need to know "all" of the skills to participate.

> to contribute", as well as "ways you can contribute if you have these skills".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and "places to apply your skills".
```

### JupyterHub-specific knowledge

- **JupyterHub component architecture**. JupyterHub is the underlying tool of many

>   sub-projects in the JupyterHub/Binder ecosystem, and it's good to undertand its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  sub-projects in the JupyterHub/Binder ecosystem, and it's good to understand its
```

  for testing. However, some projects involve more complex tests than you'd normally find
  in a Python project. For example, mocking HTTP servers, or infrastructure that runs in the cloud.

### Server infrastructure

- **HTTP and REST APIs**. These are the ways in which services, extensions, and some
  authenticators interact with a JupyterHub.
- **tornado / asyncio**. JupyterHub uses these tools in order to send messages across
  JupyterHub infrastructure (e.g., between JupyterHub processes and user servers).

### UI/UX

- **HTML, CSS, and Jinja**. HTML and CSS are used to generate user-facing pages throughout
  JupyterHub. Jinja is a templating engine that allows you to create HTML pages with
  variables inserted into them for customization.
- **Javascript**. Some dynamic content on JupyterHub pages (or via extensions) uses
  Javascript to control the page's behavior.
* **UX/UI knowledge**. Aside from specific *implementations* of JupyterHub interfaces
  (which generally use HTML), it is also helpful to know about the structure and design
  of user interfaces, and considering the user experience as well.

### Deployment Infrastructure

> - **Docker**. JupyterHub uses Docker throughout its projects to provide environments that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Python**. Most JupyterHub projects are distributed as Python packages on [Pypi](https://pypi.org/). Packages are often installed in [virtual Python environments](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/) or [Conda environments](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html)
- **Docker**. JupyterHub uses Docker throughout its projects to provide environments that
```
To me this sounds like you need to know Docker or Kubernetes to deploy JupyterHub, when plain Python environments are equally valid are a lot easier to develop in..

Reviewer 2: PyPI

  both JupyterHub and other communities can deploy. Docker is a core part of the Kubernetes
  deployments of JupyterHub, and can also be used to control user environments in a JupyterHub.
- **Kubernetes basics**. A popular way to run JupyterHub is by using Kubernetes, a
  framework for orchestrating cloud infrastructure that is flexible and vendor-agnostic.
  Some projects of JupyterHub (in particular, [JupyterHub for Kubernetes](https://z2jh.jupyter.org),
  [Kubespawner](https://jupyterhub-kubespawner.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and
  [BinderHub](https://binderhub.readthedocs.io/)) all use Kubernetes for their infrastructure.

### Community infrastructure

* **Technical Writing**. Every tool in the JupyterHub ecosystem is documented, and needs

>   clear, concise, well-structured information to help others learn and use it. Any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  clear, concise, well-structured information to help others. Any
```

  contributions that improve documentation are appreciated.
* **Issue guidance and triage**. Almost all enhancements to JupyterHub tools begin with
  an issue. They are the most common point of interaction with the broader community.
  To improve the content of our issues and facilitate improvements in JupyterHub, it is

>   important to be a good listener, and to engage with others sharing their perspective.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  important to be a good listener, a respectful responder, and someone who encourages others to share their perspective.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Jupyter Community Forum**. The [Discourse forum](https://discourse.jupyter.org/) is busy with questions and discussions about Jupyter. Support for using JupyterHub is handled through the forum in preference to GitHub issues which are reserved for bug reports and discussion related to technical development. Any help you can offer to other users is very welcome, and the forum is also a great place to exchange knowledge.

```
This paragraph could do with some refinement, but I thought I'd get things started.

# Skills and ways to contribute

There are many ways that you can contribute to the JupyterHub / Binder projects.
This page suggests some pathways for community members to learn new skills and
share their skills with the team.

## Where to start?

The short answer to this question is: follow your interests :-)  There are many
different ways to contribute to the JupyterHub community - technical, mentorship,
communications, community work, and documentation are just a few. You can either
apply your skills to help out, or use it as an opportunity to learn something new!
We welcome contributions in any area, but if you can't decide where to start
why not answer some support questions in the [community forum](https://discourse.jupyter.org/),

> or share you experiences of using Jupyter there.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
or share your experiences of using Jupyter there.
```
